In this hands-on exercise,
we will be looking at an image file,
which uses an array data model.
First, we will open a terminal window and
display an image file on the screen.
Next, we will examine the structure
of the image, and finally,
extract pixel values from
various locations in the image.
Let's begin.
First, we'll open a terminal window by
clicking on the terminal icon at the top
of the toolbar.
Next, we'll CDN2 the directory
containing the image,
cdn2downloads/bigdata2/image.
We can run ls to see the image
in different scripts.
The file, Australia.jpg,
is an image that we want to view,
we can use eog to view it.
Run eog Australia.jpg Eog is
a common image viewer on Linux.
Australia.jpg is a satellite image
of the Australian continent.
Now let's look at the structure
of this image file.
If we go back to our terminal window,
we can run the image
viewer in the background by
hitting CTRL+Z, and then bg.
We can view the dimensions or
structure of the array data model of this
image by running
dimensions.py Australia.jpg.
This says that the image has
5250 columns and 4320 rows.
So it is a two-dimensional image.
Additionally, each cell or
pixel within this image is
composed of three 8-bit pixels.
These pixels are composed of three
elements, red, green, and blue.
We can extract or
view the individual pixel elements
at a specific location in the image
by using the pixel.py script.
We can run pixel.py Australia.jpg 0
0 to see the value at one location.
The 0 0 location is
the corner of the image.
If we go back to the image, the corners
are all the ocean, so they're dark blue.
If we look at the value that was
extracted, we see that blue has a high
value of 50, whereas red and
green are low with 11 and 10.
If we view it at another corner,
by looking at 5000 0,
we'll see the same value.
If we go back to the image, the middle
of the image, which is the land,
is orange or yellow.
It's definitely not blue, so
let's take a look at a pixel value there.
Okay, run pixel.py
Australia.jpg 2000 2000.
This says that the red has a value of 118,
green is 89, and the blue is 57.
So the red and green are higher than blue,
so it's not ocean.